---
layout: doc
permalink: /blinkytape/docs/arduino/index.html
title: Programming your Blinkytape's firmware
---
We're about to do some very exciting stuff -- we're going to put a whole new program right on your Blinkytape. Since this is a pretty small program that runs on a piece of hardware, we're going to call it *firmware.* If you're not familiar with the term already, you'll probably hear the term again when you're updating the software on a new camera, TV, car, or smart fridge. At the end of the day, it's a program like any other that runs on a tiny computer in the Blinkytape (the Blinkyboard.)

So, in order to make new firmware for your Blinkytape, we're going to install the Arduino environment, followed by a few special libraries.  Then we're going to show you how to get a simple program on there. At that point, you should have the basic knowledge you need to get started on your own, so it'll be time for us to tearfully send you out into the world *on your own.*

{% include btdocs/install-arduino.md %}

{% include btdocs/install-arduino-bt-libs.md %}

{% include btdocs/plug-it-in.md %}

{% include btdocs/arduino-pre-program.md %}

## Load the default firmware - ColorSwirl.

Let's just practice to make sure we have this part down.

1. In the menus for Arduino, choose **File | Examples | BlinkyTape_Arduino | ColorSwirl**

{% include btdocs/arduino-program.md %}

If that all went well, it should look just like when you first plugged in your BlinkyTape.

## Load the "Hello World" Program in Arduino

* Open Arduino
* In the menus, choose **Examples | BlinkyTape | HelloWorld**
	* Picture go here.



## Make Your Changes!

Look for these lines:

	Some code = Goes.here("later");

Change the value of `"later"` to `"blerp"` so that your code looks like this:

	Some code = Goes.here("blerp");

Press the Upload (icon) button again to send your new version of the program
to the BlinkyTape. When the upload is complete, the BlinkyTape should be
displaying your color of choice!

## Next Steps

* Learn more about the BlinkyTape Arduino API.
* Want to dig deeper? Check out the BlinkyTape Hardware Schematics.
* Share the something something something.

{% include btdocs/arduino-troubleshooting.md %}


